---
layout: post
title: "100 Days of YARA - Day 29"
date: 2023-01-29 00:00:00 -0000
categories: yara
---

# Combining the LNK Module with the Console Module
One of my earlier posts highlighted that you could print out all the variables parsed by the LNK module with the `-D` flag. This is really useful for getting a complete picture of a file, but would potentially need extra parsing to get the values you want. 

Say you had a large set of LNK files and you wanted to get all the `MachineID` values out of them. Dumping all the information for every sample would be a bit excessive, and you may not want to dig out an LNK parser from elsewhere to work with.

With YARA's recent [Console module](https://yara.readthedocs.io/en/stable/modules/console.html) addition, this task becomes a lot more straightforward! In short, the Console module will log messages to `stdout` via the `console.log()` API. There are several different formats you can apply to this function, which involve either just printing strings, or printing messages alongside what you print. `console.log()` will also always evaluate to try, so you can insert it into rules without the fear of breaking their conditions.

So, to print all the `MachineID` values of a set of LNKs, we can use the following rule:
```
import "lnk"
import "console"

rule LNK_MachineID {
    condition:
        lnk.is_lnk and 
        console.log("MachineID: ", lnk.tracker_data.machine_id)
}
```

You'll need to do a little extra processing to get the results in a nice format (e.g. in this case using `grep "MachineID: "` to only parse out the `MachineID` values rather than the rule results), but hopefully this shows that YARA can be used for quick/straightforward file processing if you want it to!