---
layout: post
title: "100 Days of YARA - Day 30"
date: 2023-01-30 00:00:00 -0000
categories: yara
---

# Other Module Ideas
I've spent many posts now describing the capability of the LNK module; a module which I believe will make YARA more versatile. So what other modules would be good ideas to develop/include in YARA? Here are a few ideas:
- ZIP module
- RAR module
- ISO module
- Assembler module
- File identification module

## ZIP/RAR module
This may be a bit misleading, as I don't think YARA should be designed to decompress archive files. If you write YARA rules frequently, you've probably come up against the frustration of not being able to see in archives; but I think that's a limitation we have to accept. It would remove a lot of the efficiency of YARA to start doing decompression.

However, a module to parse the metadata/file structure of these archives might be something very useful! That would open up possibilities to do some nice heuristics on compressed files without having to decompress them.

## ISO module
Same reasoning as the ZIP/RAR module ideas, but highlighting this separately given the increased use of ISO files by threat actors!

## Assembler module
This is a bit out there, but what if we could write rules using assembly language instead of hex bytes? Maybe this could make rules more readable? Maybe it could allow YARA to more easily convert bytes to assembly, and back again? Maybe it's a silly idea? Sometimes we won't know the answers unless we try!

## File identification module
If you're a malware analyst, chances are you'll love tools like [Detect It Easy](https://github.com/horsicq/Detect-It-Easy) (DIE). What if similar functionality was built into YARA itself? I know a lot of the signatures that DIE use could be converted directly into YARA rules, but this would potentially make YARA more convenient to use when writing signatures for specific file types.

## Modules everywhere
What ideas would you want to see for a YARA module?